EIPS/eip-2538.md, before:

---
eip: 2538
title: Position Statement Against the Activation of ProgPoW
author: Justin Leroux (@MidnightOnMars)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-2538-informational-position-statement-against-the-activation-of-progpow/4040
status: Draft
type: Informational
created: 2020-02-25
---

## Simple Summary
This is a position paper signaling stakeholder dissent against the activation of EIP-1057 (ProgPoW).

## Abstract
This EIP is a signal to the community and core developers that a broad coalition of Ethereum stakeholders and experts are strongly against activation of Ethereum Improvement Proposal 1057: ProgPoW, a Programmatic Proof-of-Work.

Anyone who would like to add their name to this EIP to is encouraged to do so by signaling with known public accounts.

## Motivation / Specification / Rationale
Because Ethereum is a global platform with a large and diverse group of stakeholders, it is critical that major changes to the protocol have a clear purpose and broad support. EIP-1057 clearly lacks that support, yet activation is still being considered.

EIP-1057 proposes to replace eth1’s proof-of-work algorithm, Ethhash, with ProgPoW. The stated purpose of this change is to disadvantage users of specialized mining equipment in the hope of avoiding a contentious fork due to ASICs blocking the transition to eth2. In reality, EIP-1057 has precipitated a community-dividing debate since its introduction in May 2018. A stated goal of ProgPoW is to avoid contentious forks while transitioning to proof-of-stake, yet it is at odds with its own aims if activation increases the likelihood of that undesired outcome.

Later this year, Ethereum will begin to transition away from proof-of-work consensus towards proof-of-stake via the eth2 beacon chain launch. Changing the eth1 hashing algorithm at this point in Ethereum’s evolution sows community division and introduces technical risk at a time when efforts and attention should be focused elsewhere.

Some stakeholders have suggested that ProgPoW offers no clear benefit to Ethereum’s transition to PoS and may centralize hashpower. There is no evidence that it will serve its intended purpose of better aligning miner incentives to disincentivize adversarial miner tactics. More important than these claims is the reality that EIP-1057 has failed to achieve consensus in the Ethereum community after two years of debate which has consumed a significant amount of developer attention and community bandwidth. Forcing through this contentious change would only widen current rifts, negatively impacting Ethereum and its community for years to come, all without any clear reason for doing so.

Therefore, we, the signatories of this EIP, do not support the inclusion of ProgPoW into any hard fork in the current circumstances.

## Initial Signatories
Hayden Adams, Uniswap  
Andrew (cyber_hokie), EthereumDC  
Ryan Sean Adams  
Antiprosynthesis  
Sam Bacha, FreightTrust.com  
Eva Beylin, The Graph  
Anthony Bertolino  
BlockchainUnchained, r/ETHFinance Moderator  
Eric Conner, Gnosis / ETHHub  
Mariano Conti  
Tim Coulter, CEO Truffle Suite  
Luis Cuende, Aragon Co-Founder  
Mark D'Agostino, GridPlus  
Damian "foobazzler" Durruty  
Figo Finozeros  
Alex Fisher, Michigan Ethereum Meetup Founder  
Brendan Forster  
Stefan George, CTO Gnosis  
Harry Glynn, ZKEducation  
Pedro Gomes, WalletConnect  
George Hallam  
David Hoffman  
Aftab "DCInvestor" Hossain, MolochDAO  
Andrew Keys, Co-Founder DARMA Capital  
Marius Kjærstad  
Martin Köppelmann, CEO Gnosis  
Justin Leroux, GridPlus  
Scott Lewis, DeFi Pulse  
Matteo Leibowitz  
Igor Lilic, ConsenSys  
Matthew "HuntingIsland" Light, Manu DeFi  
Matt Luongo, Thesis Co-Founder  
Brian McMichael  
Jeremiah Nichol, r/ETHFinance Moderator  
Spencer Noon  
Cem Özer, Protocol Engineer  
JacobP (@jacoped), Ethereum Italia  
LeonP (@LeonPedreti), Ethereum Italia  
Andrew Redden, Groundhog  
Anthony Sassano, Set / ETHHub  
Chaz Schmidt, DeFi Pulse  
Ameen Soleimani, Spankchain / MolochDAO  
Santi Siri, Democracy Earth  
Kain Warwick, Synthetix  
Patricio Worthhalter, POAP  

## Additional Signatories
Braden Ackerman  
Andrew Bakst, Bizantine Capital  
Ryan Berckmans, creator of predictions.global  
Justin Bons, Founder & CIO of Cyber Capital  
Pedro Cruz  (@pedrocrvz)  
Jerome de Tychey, ConsensSys / ETHCC  
Tilen Držan  
Hasu, Independen Crypto Researcher  
Joshua Johnson  
Cole Kennelly (@ColeGotTweets)  
Lasse Clausen, Founding Partner at 1kx  
Matej Galvánek, sigil fund  
Jonathan Joseph  
Aaron Kruger, Moonshot Capital  
Ana Jolsson, r/EthereumNoobies Moderator  
Sam Lee (@xlog4n)  
Paul Meier  
Will Middleton, Block Formation LLC
Jordi Morris  
Deniz Omer, Kyber Network  
Denis Peterson  
QChain (@QchainLLC)  
Jimmy Ragosa, ConsenSys  
Ignatius J. Reilly  
Joshua Richardson, Bamboo Relay  
Dennis Schlegel  
Gabriel Shapiro  
Bob Sumerwill, Executive Director, ETC Cooperative  
Elliot Olds (Atstake)  

## Pseudonymous Twitter Accounts
0xNick.eth, owner at EthereumPrice.org  
Anthony of AltcoinXP (@AltcoinXP)  
Pedro C. (@curiosoacerca)  
cryptovestor (@_cryptovestor)  
Eto Demerzel (@Daneel_Olivaw_R)  
The Gryphon (@thisisindeed)  
ishare.eth (@ishareushare)  
musa (@musatheredguard)  
Pedro (@0x_Pedro)  
Melchior (@melchior_b)  
nooz81.eth (@nooz81)  
Staking Gwei (@staking_gwei)  
wolfofethereum.eth (@LUKACACIC)  
zplit.eth (@zpl1t)  

## Additional Pseydonymous Signatories
Always_Question

## Backwards Compatibility
Not applicable.

## Test Cases
Not applicable.

## Implementation
Not applicable.

## Security Considerations
Not applicable.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

Commit message:

Update eip-2583.md (How to build consensus)
Update eip-2583.md with informaiton about a consensus building (Instead of Polarization) way to do petitions at canonizer.com.

EIPS/eip-2538.md, after:

---
eip: 2538
title: Position Statement Against the Activation of ProgPoW
author: Justin Leroux (@MidnightOnMars)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-2538-informational-position-statement-against-the-activation-of-progpow/4040
status: Draft
type: Informational
created: 2020-02-25
---

## Simple Summary
This is a position paper signaling stakeholder dissent against the activation of EIP-1057 (ProgPoW).

## Abstract
This EIP is a signal to the community and core developers that a broad coalition of Ethereum stakeholders and experts are strongly against activation of Ethereum Improvement Proposal 1057: ProgPoW, a Programmatic Proof-of-Work.

Anyone who would like to add their name to this EIP to is encouraged to do so by signaling with known public accounts.

## Motivation / Specification / Rationale
Because Ethereum is a global platform with a large and diverse group of stakeholders, it is critical that major changes to the protocol have a clear purpose and broad support. EIP-1057 clearly lacks that support, yet activation is still being considered.

EIP-1057 proposes to replace eth1’s proof-of-work algorithm, Ethhash, with ProgPoW. The stated purpose of this change is to disadvantage users of specialized mining equipment in the hope of avoiding a contentious fork due to ASICs blocking the transition to eth2. In reality, EIP-1057 has precipitated a community-dividing debate since its introduction in May 2018. A stated goal of ProgPoW is to avoid contentious forks while transitioning to proof-of-stake, yet it is at odds with its own aims if activation increases the likelihood of that undesired outcome.

Later this year, Ethereum will begin to transition away from proof-of-work consensus towards proof-of-stake via the eth2 beacon chain launch. Changing the eth1 hashing algorithm at this point in Ethereum’s evolution sows community division and introduces technical risk at a time when efforts and attention should be focused elsewhere.

Some stakeholders have suggested that ProgPoW offers no clear benefit to Ethereum’s transition to PoS and may centralize hashpower. There is no evidence that it will serve its intended purpose of better aligning miner incentives to disincentivize adversarial miner tactics. More important than these claims is the reality that EIP-1057 has failed to achieve consensus in the Ethereum community after two years of debate which has consumed a significant amount of developer attention and community bandwidth. Forcing through this contentious change would only widen current rifts, negatively impacting Ethereum and its community for years to come, all without any clear reason for doing so.

Therefore, we, the signatories of this EIP, do not support the inclusion of ProgPoW into any hard fork in the current circumstances.

## Building consensus
Lots of people collaborating to communicate en masse like this is critically important, so thanks all for doing this!!  This is very educational, and surprising to some, to see that there are this many people willing to take these kinds of actions on this side of the fence.  Also, since primitive tools like petitions just polarize people, we’re working on a better system.  For example, where can people that want something different, including working towards finding consensus, sign?  How do people jump camps or un-sign after a concession has been made (or maybe falsifying results of an A B test) on the competing side?  

We’ve started a modern tool that enables people to communicate in mass like this but in a dynamic consensus building way.  We’ve started a new consensus building topic on “ProgPOW”  as part of the “Ethereum Consensus Project.”  It’s just getting started,  so it needs lots of wiki help on both sides.  This brings competing petitions like ‘camps’ together into a single topic, so people can see just how many people there are on both sides, and exactly what they want, and how this is changing.  Camps can wiki improve as people learn more and negotiate towards a single consensus camp.  Anyone can propose a change to a camp.  As long as no current direct supporters of a camp object to a proposed change during the review period (currently one day) you can assume unanimous consensus, so the change goes live after the review period.

## Initial Signatories
Hayden Adams, Uniswap  
Andrew (cyber_hokie), EthereumDC  
Ryan Sean Adams  
Antiprosynthesis  
Sam Bacha, FreightTrust.com  
Eva Beylin, The Graph  
Anthony Bertolino  
BlockchainUnchained, r/ETHFinance Moderator  
Eric Conner, Gnosis / ETHHub  
Mariano Conti  
Tim Coulter, CEO Truffle Suite  
Luis Cuende, Aragon Co-Founder  
Mark D'Agostino, GridPlus  
Damian "foobazzler" Durruty  
Figo Finozeros  
Alex Fisher, Michigan Ethereum Meetup Founder  
Brendan Forster  
Stefan George, CTO Gnosis  
Harry Glynn, ZKEducation  
Pedro Gomes, WalletConnect  
George Hallam  
David Hoffman  
Aftab "DCInvestor" Hossain, MolochDAO  
Andrew Keys, Co-Founder DARMA Capital  
Marius Kjærstad  
Martin Köppelmann, CEO Gnosis  
Justin Leroux, GridPlus  
Scott Lewis, DeFi Pulse  
Matteo Leibowitz  
Igor Lilic, ConsenSys  
Matthew "HuntingIsland" Light, Manu DeFi  
Matt Luongo, Thesis Co-Founder  
Brian McMichael  
Jeremiah Nichol, r/ETHFinance Moderator  
Spencer Noon  
Cem Özer, Protocol Engineer  
JacobP (@jacoped), Ethereum Italia  
LeonP (@LeonPedreti), Ethereum Italia  
Andrew Redden, Groundhog  
Anthony Sassano, Set / ETHHub  
Chaz Schmidt, DeFi Pulse  
Ameen Soleimani, Spankchain / MolochDAO  
Santi Siri, Democracy Earth  
Kain Warwick, Synthetix  
Patricio Worthhalter, POAP  

## Additional Signatories
Braden Ackerman  
Andrew Bakst, Bizantine Capital  
Ryan Berckmans, creator of predictions.global  
Justin Bons, Founder & CIO of Cyber Capital  
Pedro Cruz  (@pedrocrvz)  
Jerome de Tychey, ConsensSys / ETHCC  
Tilen Držan  
Hasu, Independen Crypto Researcher  
Joshua Johnson  
Cole Kennelly (@ColeGotTweets)  
Lasse Clausen, Founding Partner at 1kx  
Matej Galvánek, sigil fund  
Jonathan Joseph  
Aaron Kruger, Moonshot Capital  
Ana Jolsson, r/EthereumNoobies Moderator  
Sam Lee (@xlog4n)  
Paul Meier  
Will Middleton, Block Formation LLC
Jordi Morris  
Deniz Omer, Kyber Network  
Denis Peterson  
QChain (@QchainLLC)  
Jimmy Ragosa, ConsenSys  
Ignatius J. Reilly  
Joshua Richardson, Bamboo Relay  
Dennis Schlegel  
Gabriel Shapiro  
Bob Sumerwill, Executive Director, ETC Cooperative  
Elliot Olds (Atstake)  

## Pseudonymous Twitter Accounts
0xNick.eth, owner at EthereumPrice.org  
Anthony of AltcoinXP (@AltcoinXP)  
Pedro C. (@curiosoacerca)  
cryptovestor (@_cryptovestor)  
Eto Demerzel (@Daneel_Olivaw_R)  
The Gryphon (@thisisindeed)  
ishare.eth (@ishareushare)  
musa (@musatheredguard)  
Pedro (@0x_Pedro)  
Melchior (@melchior_b)  
nooz81.eth (@nooz81)  
Staking Gwei (@staking_gwei)  
wolfofethereum.eth (@LUKACACIC)  
zplit.eth (@zpl1t)  

## Additional Pseydonymous Signatories
Always_Question

## Backwards Compatibility
Not applicable.

## Test Cases
Not applicable.

## Implementation
Not applicable.

## Security Considerations
Not applicable.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
